Version control system is tool/software which is used to track the changes made 
to file or set of files. It will maintain all the changes made to file and 
also provides a flexibility to revert back to previous changes. It is mainly used
in software application development to keep track of changes made to the source
code and also to revert back to previous version if there is glitch.
 
Basically we have two types of version control system.
    1. Centralized version control system(CVCS).
    2. Distributed version control system(DVCS).

------> Centralized Version Control System(CBCS).

In Centralized version control system there will be a server and client,
the server is the master repository which contains all versions source code of 
the project and if client/developers want to work on that project he needs to
take the project on his local system and make change accordingly and need to 
commit the changes to the server.Committing a change simply means merging your 
own code into the master repository.

In this system all the new version of the source code will be pushed directly
to the master repository in the server. There will be just one repository and 
that will contain all the history or version of the code and different branches 
of the code.

So, Basically you will get the code from central system which contains the 
changes made by other developers, merge all your new code to updated code and 
then commit the code to master repository. It has a single level workflow and
developers won't have copies of their own. Any changes made to the source code 
were unknown to the other developers and there won't be any communication 
between developers

Subversion(SVN) or Concurrent Version System(CVS) are Centralized version systems.


------> Distributed version control system(DVCS).

In Distributed version control system each developer contains the full copy of
the entire project and the full history of the commits made. Here we never rely on
central server and also the developer will have the entire backup of updated code
on his local system.

This system will provide you a local server wherein you can work offline and 
independently without connecting to the central repository and without internet.
So all the changes you have made will be in your own server or local repository.

In DVCS you don't need to communicate with the central server or master repository,
for each and every command rather you can do everything locally which gives you 
the benefit to work smoothy and in fast pace.

The main advantage of this system is that, you will have the backup for your 
entire code in your local repository whenever the central server crashes.

Git, Mercurial, Bazaar etc., are Distributed version control systems.

